Interviewer: Which educational programs do you study and what year are you in?
Respondent: I'm doing a master's program here in information system management is a 2 years program 120 credits and this is my first year of my studies and it is the second semester.
Interviewer: Do you do drawings (or mind maps) using digital tools?
 Respondent:  Yes I do because we live in a digital world, no one now was to do drawings in paper when you have so suffocated tool that can have drawing something bye 5 minutes instate of 30 minutes.
Interviewer: How do you concretely do it, can you describe the procedure?
Respondent:  Well it depends on what I want to do. For example if I want to draw let say I want to model something a model in data base course let say want to model my ERD diagram I know you are familiar with this model so I just go and find digital tools we have so many I can download a software that can help me to draw or model that or I can just go to the website of that tool so I can model it online so I don't have to download the software and install in my computer and draw, do that drawing or mind maps so I just go to the my browser type the website for that tool then do it online so just pike the company thy want then boom I'm done , its easy you know if you have tried to do this ,when you do drawing and using digital tools its takes you lees time to draw than drawing with pencil . That how I do it.
Interviewer: Why do you do drawings (or mind maps) using those digital tools? 
Respondent: Well… like I said when you do drawing using digital tools you get so many advantages or benefits why did you do it with digital tools because what thy did in this tools like implement some sophisticated knowledge like it's makes you draw stuff easily than drawing on paper because they just like drag and drop component that you want to use maybe connect them or draw them its easy and its easy to like to make mistake when you do that drawing because when you draw using your pen or pencil you can make mistake but using digital tools is not easy to make mistake that’s way I'm using and love using this digital tools, every time I want to do drawing I use digital tools and never use my hand sense when thy enter Duse  this digital tools  
Interviewer: How does that help your learning? 
Well… I think that help me so much, first I get to know how technology works
Interviewer: Which digital tools do you use?
Respondent: I use to many tools like I said depends on what I want to draw let for example if I want for draw something I can use my computer doing that drawings some times like I'm use my tablet because I have a tablet home some time its I get tiered to carry my computer every time because its like 10 kilos so I carry my tablet then I can use my tablet, because tablet can preform similar task you can preform in your computer so I use tablet, some time my phone.
Interviewer: Do you take notes using digital tools during seminars or lectures?
Respondent:  Well… yes, I do I take notes during seminar or lecture because I am to lazy to writing notes use my pen and book because some time I get to go to the lecture and I release I forget my pin and my book to take notes so taking notes using digital tools like my computer is very easy because most of the time I usual carry my computer or tablet so where the teacher is present lecture or what doing in the seminar so just open my computer and take notes
Interviewer: How do you concretely do it?
Respondent: The way I do it is depend on what kind of notes I want to take, we have deferent programs that can help you to take those notes for example in my computer I can use Office package to take notes I can use Microsoft words, I can use Power point, I can use note pad so its depends on what type of notes you want to take if I want to take notes like in presentation mode I Can use power point if I want to take notes in good printable file I can use word or I can use note pad if I want to take short notes. Note pad is easy to write short notes five to ten lines. 
Interviewer: Can you describe the procedure?
Respondent: Yes, I just open my computer usually when I'm in the lecture or on the seminar I usually switch on my computer during the start of the seminar or the lecture so when I want to take notes I just open my program the what document then start typing, sometimes we have the slides before the lecture so when we present those slides I have the same slide in my computer so I can take notes in the same slide I just high light where I want to add the note because the point adding notes is I'm adding something is not in the slide and its not mention before in the slide so I just high light where to add those notes and type my note.
Interviewer: Why do you do take notes that way?
Respondent: Because I like to take notes that way its easy for me. 
Interviewer: How does that help your learning? 
Respondent: Well… that help me so much because sense I was kid I love learning by taking notes because when I learn something I'm taking notes is make me easy to remember staff in not like setting, when I go through maybe second time to read those for the exam is easy for me to memories everything   
Interviewer: Which digital tools do you use?
Respondent: For take those notes? Most of the time I use my computer but in some other time use my tablet.
Interviewer: Do you write text using digital tools in your studies? Perhaps to summarize literature/lecture material, or for other purposes?
Respondent: well yes I do, I do write text using my digital tolls and most of the time I use my computer writing those texts. For example like when we report an assignment or writing summaries I use my computer to writ digital text, and I think it easy because when you writ something in digital way first its save time, second its easy for you to correct some mistakes because we all human begin so when we write something its easy to make mistake by hand but with digital tolls can help you identify this mistake like you type long this word her, you type long this one ..so i can fixe it. we writing academic literature or  academic paper so when we do some thing digital its easy for you to check plagiarism, Grammar . so do like those texting in digital tolls 
Interviewer: How do you concretely do it, can you describe the procedure?
Respondent: Yah like I said just depend on what I want to writ, sometimes I use word, sometimes power point but the way I do it just open my program that I want to use for that time and then do it, writ my text for example if I want to write a summary I'm use Microsoft word, If I want to prepare maybe presentation I use power point.
Interviewer:  Why do you do write texts that way?
Respondent:  Well I think its make me easy writing text in digital way than using the traditional way because in a digital text for me its easy, and its secure way than you write in the book because where I writ in a book I might maybe I have a kid at home maybe take away that paper and throat some where. So using digital tolls for me is very help full that’s way I like to use it.
Interviewer: How does that help your learning? 
Respondent: Well that help me allot in that like now where doing this MMII course we have to writ like summaries we have to writ take home assignment so writing in a digital tolls help me expand my thinking my brain the way I use this tolls and help me to relies what digital tolls can do for us  
Interviewer: Which digital tools do you use?
Respondent: For this writing text? Most of the time I use my computer but in some cases I use my tablet but I never to tried use a phone writing text, maybe some phone can have that capability to writ text but never use phone.
Interviewer: Do you audio record your self or others for learning purposes?
Respondent: This one a bit trek but, I do recording for others but not for my self I never audio of my self because I don't see the point of why I should record my conversation my voice and I know what I spoken never record this audio but I do other record for other conversation because when I have conversation with others like I have a meeting with my professor about writ my theses and the professor have something to tell me about maybe what I should to do in my theses in my writing what I should do so I just listened to him and record this conversation it help me to remember stuff that when I get out of that room I might forget but I have the record for the conversation so it's okay I can listen to the conversation and I know exactly what he's saying for what ever going to forget so I can remember so I can remember stuff I get forget after the conversation.
 Interviewer: How do you concretely do it? Can you describe the procedure?
Respondent: Most of the time I use my phone because we live in digital world, I have an Android phone and I have application for recording audio so I just open my phone open that application and then restart then click recording button then it says starting recording this conversation one conversation is done I stop it and save the conversation and then listen to this, that's how I do it
 Interviewer: How do audio recordings help your Learning? 
Respondent: yeah how the recordings help my learning I can say help me so much because sometimes even during the class I can try to record something in audio format may be the teacher say something and I think this is important for me I record it and listen to it later it's me my learning process easy, is something like that
Interviewer: Which digital tools do you use?
Respondent: Yeah for this audio recording most of the time I use my phone sometime I use my computer because even in my computer have this capability what is easy to use phone
Interviewer: Do you video record your self or others for learning purposes?
Respondent:  I do video record but not for myself for others, I do record others videos but this videos help me like when I want to watch something like that, it's easy for me to remember stuff when I have recorded the video, it's like sometimes in the class then the professor trying to present something that I think or I thought it might be useful to me but I don't have that's material or he don't provide this material. So I can just decide to to take this video and I have this conversation and then I can watch it later on, and that's helped my learning process like that's way
Interviewer: How do you concretely do it? Can you describe the procedure?
Respondent: Well… sometimes I just, depends on witch toll or what toll I have that time let say I have like at my phone we have so god camera so just open it start my camera, setting the video mode because in a camera we can have video mode or picture mode and then just click start button.  
 Interviewer: How do video recordings help your learning? Which digital tools do you use?
Respondent: Yeah video recording help me allot in my learning process because I can record a video for maybe when a professor present something so that video recording is like a useful information to me because I can watch it any time, any place. I can open that video and watch it again and again and again .so I can watch it two times three times ten times so I can memories every thing.
Interviewer: Do you take pictures for learning purposes? 
Respondent:  Yes I do take picture for learning purpose but most of the cases during classes or seminar I do pictures
Interviewer: Perhaps of your own notes, or lecture slides, etc.? 
Respondent:  Yeah most of the time I never take picture for my own notes because what the point why I take a picture for my own notes and I know I have already it. I do pictures for others like teacher like when he present a mode during the class and let say that mode not in the book. So it easy to my to take my phone and take a picture of it and it take two or three second. So it takes less time than drawing by myself using pen and paper. 
Interviewer: How do you concretely do it, can you describe the procedure?
Respondent:  Yeas I can describe I just open my phone then start the camera searching picture mode and then in that picture mode I can take any picture I want during seminar or classes 
Interviewer: How do images/pictures help your learning?
Respondent:  Well taking picture help me allot in learning because if I take like I said a picture for some that is nit in the lecture so I got something that I can go home and read it again, yeah because if I didn't take a picture for it that means I have a higher chance of forget that explanation or that something the professor explain to us. But if I have the picture and forgot something I just open my picture then it will be easy for me to remember what she or he said.  
Interviewer: Which digital tools do you use?
Respondent:  Yeah for taking those picture most of the time I use my phone but sometime I use my computer because it has a webcam you can take a picture but 99.99 I use my phone .Its easier to use phone than to use computer.
Interviewer: General: What digital learning practices do you do, except of the already mentioned, in order to learn and increase your understanding of course material?
Respondent: I do a lot of digital stuff in practice like her at DSV at Stockholm university we have so many digital things, we have recorded lectures in the course websites we can watch the recorded videos so if you miss lecture you won't miss so much because you have a second chance or third chance or more an than you can see and you will get the same what people in the class. But beside that I use you tube to watch my staff and watch online courses, sometime I use my digital toll to watch this online filming like watching movie, Watching football game because I’m do sometime watch football game online on my computer.
 Interviewer:  How do you use digital tools when you prepare for exams (both ordinary and written home exams)?
Respondent:  okay for the exams, yeah for the exam I sometime use my computer, sometime I use my tablet, because for myself two or three weeks before the exam I have to read or go through all the course the lectures, so its easy for me to use my computer to read those course material, Some time to watch video for that course that can help me to know staff, remember staff and to pass that exam 
Interviewer:  How does that help your learning? 
Respondent:  Well that help me allot because for my self I like learning use digital tolls instead of learning use this traditional way we ben used before, I really like read a book that is in digital text than reading a hard copy book, sometime is good to have even a hard copy for that book but having a digital text is like give me more control on that text its make me easy sometime to search stuff.
Interviewer: Which digital tools do you use?
Respondent:  Yeah for this part almost of the time I use my computer, but sometime I use my tablet or my phone because even in my phone I can read some PDF and other stuff.
Interviewer:  General: Describe how you go about when you have to learn before an exam with a particular focus on the use of digital tools/technology?
Respondent:  Yeah before exam I just get ready prepared my self and then let say open computer or I want use my tablet or my phone I just if I already have those materials for that exam in my phone or in my tablet or in my computer, I just open it and start reading but if I don't Have let say my computer I just go to course website download curse materials then start reading and some times this help me because I can read those materials before the exam even when I’m in the metro or in the bus because some time is take my 30 or 40 minutes to get from my place to the university so in the bus or in the metro I can read from my digital tolls, So it makes my learning process vary helpful .
Interviewer: Do you use pre-existing video recordings when you attempt to learn something? 
Respondent:  Well… Yes, yes I do use this pre-existing video recordings when I want to learn something because is not all the time I use my phone to record something, Sometimes I have something it have ben recorded two years ago or three years ago by somebody else so I can use his recording to helping my learning process. even in the course website like what we have in ilearn  sometimes we have videos for last year or last two years, last three years so when you watch this videos will help catch grab something that may be the professor forget to say this. 
Interviewer:  How do you concretely use videos in your learning?
Respondent: Well... When I want to watch something sometimes I might miss the lecture, I might come late to the class, maybe I miss the first part of the lecture or second part so I can use this recording video to watch the part that I mist that lecture so that how I use it 
Interviewer: can you describe the procedure? (Repetition, fast-forwarding, selective viewing, etc.).

Respondent: yea... I can describe the procedure just like if depends on where I am if I'm at home or at school I just open my computer or my tablet go to link let say course website and then find the courses recorded videos or recorded lecture the I just click play.
Interviewer: What kind of videos do you use (YouTube, recorded lectures, etc.)? 
Respondent: I use both of them, I use you tube, I use recorded lecture. For someone courses I use only recorded lecture because we only ben provided these Videos in course website, but some courses the professors or the teachers have created like a you tube channel they post videos on you tube so just go to the you tube search for the video and fallow the channel the you see everything thy post on that channel, then I can watch them on the you tube.
Interviewer: Why do you look at videos in your studies and how does it help your learning?
Respondent:  yeah the reason I use my video in my study that it make my learning process easy because if I have a video that means I can watch anytime I want, so if I miss a lecture that means I missed everything but having this videos help me allot that way I using it, its easy to remember stuff so ... because if I want to remember stuff I just go through those video two or three times or four times so its stick in my head.
Interviewer: okay but do you use pre-existing images when you attempt to learn something (for instance Google pictures)?
Respondent: yeah... because in learning process we go through many stuff, in case of this images... I do sometimes I might I want to search something, let say in Google. Those picture its help me allot I get know in deeply that stuff I want to know  
Interviewer: How do you concretely use images in your learning?  
Respondent: well sometimes I might search image that I want to know about in sometime might I use that image in my academic writing let say I’m writing theses I might searching image in Google or where ever but if I get that image I want to use it make my easy to just snap a picture for it or save it as a picture in any format then use it in my academic writing, then I have to reference it, okay I copy image from this guy let say this and this and this. So its help me allot   
Interviewer: Can you describe the procedure? 
Respondent: Well the procedure most of the time I just open Google and type what I want to search, Then I will get so many images about that what I want. Then I will pick the most that I want to use it, Just save it in my computer or if I don't want to save it just take a snap shot because in the computer we have so many tolls that can help you.
Interviewer: What kind of images do you use? 
Respondent: Yeah most of the time academic images.
Interviewer: Why do you look at images when you attempt to learn something?
Respondent:  looking at image when I tray to learn something help my to know staff very well because you know I have this believe picture say more than words.so its easy to remember staff than words.
Interviewer: How does that help your learning?
Respondent: well that help me allot because in my learning process in this course I'm taking now I can search... let say we have to find course book let say we need to buy 4th addition of this book sometimes I might don't know how that book look like so Google that book and search that book and get exactly picture of that book what it looks like then go to the shop and buy similar to that book , so its helping my learning process like that.
 Interviewer: Do you use pre-existing audio recordings in your studies? How do you concretely use audios in your studies?
Respondent:  Yes I do use pre-existing audio in my studies because sometimes I might get access of some recorded that somebody else has it let say the privies last five or three years then I can access them and lessen to them.
Interviewer: Can you describe the procedure? 
Respondent: Well the procedure sometimes its depend on how I get access to that audio recording let say sometimes I might search on the internet and download the audio recording that I want hear about then lessen to it on my computer or sometimes I might know the guy how has access to that recording audio then might ask him maybe can you give me a fever to get access to that audio? Then maybe give me and I can use it that how I use it.
Interviewer: What kind of videos do you use (YouTube, recorded lectures, etc.)? 
Respondent:  yeas I do use video, Most of the time I use you tube and recorded lecture.  
Interviewer: Why do you listen to audio recordings when you attempt to learn something? And How does that help your learning
Respondent: yeah ... first off course that help me allot in my learning process because lessening to audios make you capture staff that you may never catch them from the book or where ever you reading that, from audio I get to know allot of stuff because usually people toke more than thy writ .so leasing to audio you get so many stuff that not easy to get when you read a PDF or text, I listen to this recording lecture is easy to me to cutch stuff first of all, it help me in process make me easy in my learning because some time I get tired when I look on PDF or book so listen is like listen to music. 
Interviewer:  Do you use digital text and information in your studies? 
Respondent:  yes I do, I do use digital text and information in my study because sometimes we have to writ like evaluation report about the course we taking or writing reports ,and we have to write so many stuff.
Interviewer: How do you concretely use digital texts in your studies?
Respondent:  Well...the way I use it depends sometimes I might use this digital text when I when I want to prepare my self for the exam. Or might I use this digital text when I want to let say have a presentation I can use them. Sometime if I want to shear with people or colleges .I can shear with them so its easy to shear this digital text than shearing a hard copy or a traditional way we use before.
Interviewer: Can you describe the procedure?
Respondent:  The way I use it? Well... just use some tolls or programs, sometimes I use Microsoft word, I use power point, I use PDF I create my own PDF. 
Interviewer: What kind of digital texts do you use? 
Respondent: Well... I use PDF, I use word document, I use power point document during presentation, word document let say when I writing my report, and sometimes I use PDF because I feel secure if create a PDF copy. Thy say PDF more secure than word document .
Interviewer: Why do you use digital texts when you attempt to learn something and how does that help your learning? This is the last question.
Respondent: I'm happy for it, But is I'm using digital text when I attend to something but I mean its easy to me to get access to the digital text then getting access to the let say something text that is not digital let say book so and using digital text make my learning process easy because let say I want read a book of 600 pages if I'm using digital text, I just search for what I want read about and then jump to it and read it but if I use a hardcopy book then it is not easy for me to go to the specific page I want to read. But digital texts help me to achieve that aim.
Interviewer: Thank you so much for this interview and good Luck in your program and this course 
Respondent: you too, you are welcome 
