Which educational program do you study and what year are you in?
I am studying Master Degree in IT Project Management.
1. Do you do drawings (or mind maps) using digital tools? How do you concretely do it, can you describe the procedure? Why do you do drawings (or mind maps) using those digital tools? How does that help your learning? Which digital tools do you use?
Well…To be honest with you, I am not using any digital tools for drawings. Maybe I will sound very old fashioned, but all these things I do using pen and paper. Usually, all my drawings are very abstract and it is only me who can understand them. I usually do not share them with nobody and keep them in my note book. It is not a digital notebook. Just the usual one. That is why I do not know even what kind of tools I can use for this purpose.
Could you tell me why are you not using? You don’t know which one you can use or you don’t like it?
Hmmm…does a Microsoft Paint counts?
Yes!
Ok, than I have used Paint, but not for learning purposes. I was using it just for fun. Wait, sometimes I use Excel or Word to make some diagrams. Those I like very much. Makes the whole report look better and it helps to present some of the results as well. During power point presentations it is better to use charts, diagrams, pictures rather than just only text.
2. Do you take notes using digital tools during seminars or lectures? How do you concretely do it, can you describe the procedure? How does that help your learning? 
Yes, I do! Most of all I like to use an iPad to take the notes during the lectures. The best thing is that it saves information automatically and sends to your email. It is very important for me, because …mmm…. because when I listen to the teacher I cannot focus on typing and easily forget to save information. It is also easy to share notes with classmates. As well, I take notes using Word, when I have my computer with me. I think, nowadays, for people it is easier to type words, then to write them down. It also looks clean and understandable.
Which digital tools do you use?
As I have mentioned, I use iPad notes and Microsoft Word. Sometimes I use Excel, but it does not happen very often.
Why do you do take notes that way?
For me it is the fastest way to take the notes and most of the time, I have ether iPad or computer. I think it will be difficult to get a piece of paper and a pen these days. And as I said, later on I can share these notes with other students. At the same time, they can send it to me. Very easy!
3. Do you write text using digital tools in your studies? Perhaps to summarize literature/lecture material, or for other purposes? How do you concretely do it, can you describe the procedure? Why do you do write texts that way? How does that help your learning? Which digital tools do you use?
Yes, I am using them. I really like to work with Google Docs especially if I have a project in the group. It is much easier to share information and you do not have to copy/paste it. And for sure you will not miss it. Another good think about Google Docs that everyone can add information and make corrections. For example me, I always create million of the copies of the same document and later have to check which version is the last one. So it saves time and energy that you can use during the brainstorming instead.
How does that help your learning?
It is always easy to find, unless there is no internet connection, which happens….I don’t even remember, when was the last time I didn’t have internet. As well, you can save all these documents or a digital book on your USB and have it with you. USB compared to book is very light.
4. Do you audio record your self or others for learning purposes? How do you concretely do it, can you describe the procedure? How do audio recordings help your learning?
Yeah… once I was doing a project together with my classmate. We found a supervisor and during the meetings we asked him if we allowed recording his speech. The reason of recording him was that we wanted to make sure that we understood him correctly and understand in the same way what he has said. Sometimes when you listen to, you miss some details and it is easier and faster just to record the person’s speech. We have recorded him with the phone’s recorder.
Was it during your bachelor studies?
Yes, indeed.
Which digital tools do you use?
I was using an iPhone. I think all the smartphones have an option to record. If by some reasons there is no such an option, it is possible to download a special application. I know as well, that you can use some specials programs and record through Skype. But I never tried it.
Was it helpful? Your recording?
Yes, it was. It helped me a lot, especially when you are not sure if you were supposed to do something or not. I could just listen and it was very clear.
5. Do you video record your self or others for learning purposes? How do you concretely do it, can you describe the procedure? How do video recordings help your learning? Which digital tools do you use?
To say the truth, I have never done that…mmm…cannot remember any examples of recording a video…sorry.
6. Do you take pictures for learning purposes? Perhaps of your own notes, or lecture slides, etc. How do you concretely do it, can you describe the procedure? 
Pictures? Yeah…rarely. Sometimes …once during one seminar I took few pictures, just because our teacher told us that one of the slides he did not include into slides that he will share with us. So…I was very curious to analyze more that information and took a picture. But usually I do not take any pics, because usually all information is online and there is no need to take any. 
How do images/pictures help your learning? 
Well, since I am travelling a lot, it is easy to have pictures saved on your mobile. For example, if you do not have WiFi and do not have access to the email, then you can learn something using pictures. However, it is not always easy to check pictures from the lecture on your phone. 
Which digital tools do you use?
I use my mobile phone to take pictures and then if I need send them to my email or to another device, such as an iPad. Sometimes I share them with my classmates through Facebook or Dropbox.
7. General: What digital learning practices do you do, except of the already mentioned, in order to learn and increase your understanding of course material? How do you use digital tools when you prepare for exams (both ordinary and written home exams)?
Well… when I need to find more information than course literature provides, usually I google it, emmm, use google search. Very often I also use YouTube. There are a lot of different sources if you want to increase your understanding about the topic. I am really a big fan of TED TV. Seriously, it is so inspiring! Especially before exams however, sometimes I see that when there is a lot of interesting information, it is difficult to focus on the topic and I browse not related content. 
Which digital tools do you use?
Both of them, I mean YouTube and TED I have applications on my iPad. So I use them from there.
How does that help your learning?
I like TED the most, because it always has an interesting content. With YouTube…yeah…sometimes you can get distracted with some funny videos. But when you don’t have time for that it is also very helpful. I learn a lot by watching. Sometimes I even take notes while watching.
8. General: Describe how you go about when you have to learn before an exam with a particular focus on the use of digital tools/technology? 
Well, sometimes during the exam you have to defend you project and to present findings. Here I think everyone uses PowerPoint to make a presentation. Sometimes students also share some notes by using Dropbox. It is very important when for instance it is a book of big size. Hmmm, it is everything what comes to my mind.
Use of pre-existing digital material for learning
1. Do you use pre-existing video recordings when you attempt to learn something? How do you concretely use videos in your learning, can you describe the procedure? (Repetition, fast-forwarding, selective viewing, etc.). What kind of videos do you use (YouTube, recorded lectures, etc.)? 
Yes, indeed. One of the subjects here in Stockholm University actually included more video records then readings, I guess. So, I really used them a lot of times. Usually it is kinda of repetition of what you have read in the academic literature. But it is easier understandable and sounds more realistic. Also it helps to repeat the most important information. And yeah, I also both recorded lectures and sometimes videos from YouTube.
Why do you look at videos in your studies and how does it help your learning?
Well a lot of times information in academic book and articles is very complicated. And when you have to solve cases, sometimes it is not clear how to connect theory and practice. So I think that videos are kind of bridges, that explain in easier way and provides you a help solving practical problems.
2. Do you use pre-existing images when you attempt to learn something (for instance Google pictures)? How do you concretely use images in your learning, can you describe the procedure? What kind of images do you use? Why do you look at images when you attempt to learn something? How does that help your learning?
It’s a good question! I am using existing diagrams and tables in the literature. It really helps to memorize the context. By remembering one of the diagrams, tables or pictures it is easier to answer the question.
3. Do you use pre-existing audio recordings in your studies? How do you concretely use audios in your studies, can you describe the procedure? What kind of videos do you use (YouTube, recorded lectures, etc.)? 
You have so many good questions!!! Well, during the day happens that I have a lot of free minutes in transport or waiting in the queues. At that moment I usually try to listen to some recordings. Usually from YouTube or if I have any recorded lectures. It helps a lot, while I am studying. Since, once you start reading I have this feeling that I have heard it already.
Why do you listen to audio recordings when you attempt to learn something? How does that help your learning?
Personally for me, it is difficult to remember information during listening. I prefer to see the text. But when it is repeating of something or additional information to the topic I already know, it helps…. It helps to save time and go into more details about the topic.
4. Do you use digital text and information in your studies? How do you concretely use digital texts in your studies, can you describe the procedure? 
Yes, sure. Well, it is easy. For instance I find an article in the digital library, open it in PDF and read it. All in all, if I can print out a material, I will do it. Maybe I am just used to it. But digital text has a lot of advantages.
What kind of digital texts do you use? Why do you use digital texts when you attempt to learn something?
I use digital books, articles, forums’ chats. To say the truth, I am very lazy to go to the library. It is much faster and easier to find everything online. I think nowadays you even have bigger digital sources choice then in the normal library. And….as I have mentioned already, it is much easier to carry with you. I mean, you can save everything on the USB drive. Or you can download books on the same iPad. And you know?! Carrying iPad with 10 books is nothing compared to carrying all those 10 books in your bag.
How does that help your learning?
Well… digital books have the same content as a normal book. So, I am not missing anything by reading digital book. Maybe only sometimes I need to keep in mind, that I have to charge my computer or an iPad. Otherwise everything is the same. Digitals text has a huge advantage. If you have a book and you need to find some information, digital books or same digital text has a search function. But, with the normal book, your brain is a search function and you can spend a lot of time searching.
I just would like to thank you for this interview and for your time.
You are more than welcome.
Wish you all the best.
You as well.
Bye.
Bye.
