Research Project 1 - Qualitative Analysis

Interview undertaken by Skype: 10 April 2015
Interview taken by: X
Anonymised - InterviewTranscriptInformant1
Transcript checked by Informant 1 on 20 April
Informed consent provided verbally during call, Agreed for interview to be recorded

Questions from Interview Guide


CONSTRUCTION OF DIGITAL MATERIAL FOR LEARNING
Q1. Do you do drawings (or mind maps) using digital tools? How do you concretely do it, can you describe the procedure? Why do you do drawings (or mind maps) using those digital tools? How does that help your learning? Which digital tools do you use?
Response from Informant 1
I do not normally use digital tools for drawing. I use digital tools primarily for schemas. I use a Word document or notes from Mac to write down the most important points and then create a map from this. It is not a map with pictures, it is more a schema. 
The schema helps highlight the most important points identified. This type of visualisation helps learn new concepts quicker and provides notes to look back on to recap in the future.
Tools used to create the schema include Word, notes from Mac, notes taken on the mobile  - can use notes from any medium.
Q2. Do you take notes using digital tools during seminars or lectures? How do you concretely do it, can you describe the procedure? Why do you do take notes that way? How does that help your learning? Which digital tools do you use?
Response from Informant 1
Yes, I take notes during seminars and lecturers. 
I take notes using devices such as a laptop or mobile phone and applications such as Word, notes - any digital tool can be used.
I normally do not use pictures but sometimes it helps to combines notes from literature and lecturers with pictures to illustrate a particular point.
The notes are very short, which helps to focus the learning process on the key points that are relevant. When there is a lot of literature to read, it is important not to get lost in the sea of words. It is therefore critical to be able to highlight the most important points. Taking focused notes helps to create a visualisation in my mind of the most critical points that I need to remember and understand to have a holistic view of the topic. 
Q3. Do you write text using digital tools in your studies? Perhaps to summarize literature/lecture material, or for other purposes? How do you concretely do it, can you describe the procedure? Why do you do write texts that way? How does that help your learning? Which digital tools do you use?
Response from Informant 1
Yes, I take notes in text format (Word, notes) to synthesis the key points from literature and lecture material. This helps to focus my learning as I remember the key points.
Tools used for text based notes include laptop and mobile phone and relevant software applications such as Word and notes. 
Q4. Do you audio record your self or others for learning purposes? How do you concretely do it, can you describe the procedure? How do audio recordings help your learning? Which digital tools do you use?
Response from Informant 1
The use of audio recording depends on the context. For example in the context of finishing a course where we need to present a project, I find it useful to audio record my presentation to see how coherent my presentation is. I have not done this a lot but if I am making an important presentation it is a good way to prepare and fine tune the presentation.
I record the presentation and then listen to it to get an impression of how the presentation comes across, determine how it can be improved, fine tuned or made more understandable.
I have not used audio recording for other purposes. I have never audio recorded other people. 
I have used SunCloud - it is an application that allows you to record a presentation. You can choose to share files with friends or keep them for internal purposes.
Q5. Do you video record your self or others for learning purposes? How do you concretely do it, can you describe the procedure? How do video recordings help your learning? Which digital tools do you use?
Response from Informant 1
I have not used video recording of myself or other people for learning purposes. 
Q6. Do you take pictures for learning purposes? Perhaps of your own notes, or lecture slides, etc. How do you concretely do it, can you describe the procedure? How do images/pictures help your learning? Which digital tools do you use?

Response from Informant 1
I sometimes take pictures from presentations of topics or things that catch my attention for learning purposes particularly if nice schemas are presented and they are not available electronically.
I take pictures primarily with my mobile phone as this is the easiest way to do it quickly. 
Q7. General: What digital learning practices do you do, except of the already mentioned, in order to learn and increase your understanding of course material? How do you use digital tools when you prepare for exams (both ordinary and written home exams)?
How does that help your learning? Which digital tools do you use?

Response from Informant 1
I like to find presentations(lectures, seminars, videos) and scientific papers online about topics that I am studying to get a deeper insight into the topic. 
I look on UTube to see what types of people are talking about the issue and what perspective they can bring to bear. 
In terms of preparation for exams that involves a presentation, I use Powerpoint to highlight the main points that I learn from scientific articles and videos. 
Q8. General: Describe how you go about when you have to learn before an exam with a particular focus on the use of digital tools/technology?
Response from Informant 1
When I am learning material for an exam, I research online tools, scientific publications and other digital repositories. 
I summarise the key points from lectures, articles etc using Word, notes with simple applications.
If I need to learn more about a particular application like the project management tool for example, it is best to download the tool and start using it. This is more effective than doing a lot of reading in isolation. It is often better to engage with the tool and learn by doing. 
USE OF PRE-EXISTING DIGITAL MATERIAL FOR LEARNING
Q1. Do you use pre-existing video recordings when you attempt to learn something? How do you concretely use videos in your learning, can you describe the procedure?
(Repetition, fast-forwarding, selective viewing, etc.). What kind of videos do you use (YouTube, recorded lectures, etc.)? Why do you look at videos in your studies and how does it help your learning?
Response from Informant 1
Yes, I actively use video recordings to learn more about topics that I am studying.
Normally I identify videos of interest and listen to it the first time. If the video is interesting, I often listen to it again or use selective viewing the second time around. If the video is very long, I skim listen to the introductory section and then focus on particular sections that are more detailed. 
I listen to the recorded lectures provided in the course work and also look for relevant videos on UTube and other online sources such as conference presentations and lecturers from other institutions. For me the sources of the materials are important. 
I find that watching videos supports learning as videos are generally short and focused on specific points that are relevant. This then assists when reading further literature on the topic as I already have an overview of the topic in my mind and have a better understanding of which points I need to know more about. Generally it helps to focus the learning process when dealing with new topics. 
Q2. Do you use pre-existing images when you attempt to learn something (for instance Google pictures)? How do you concretely use images in your learning, can you describe the procedure? What kind of images do you use? Why do you look at images when you attempt to learn something? How does that help your learning?
Response from Informant 1
I don't generally use images unless it is a very technical topic.
I am more interested in using schemas to visualise the inter-relations between the material and the key points.
Q3. Do you use pre-existing audio recordings in your studies? How do you concretely use audios in your studies, can you describe the procedure? What kind of videos do you use (YouTube, recorded lectures, etc.)? Why do you listen to audio recordings when you attempt to learn something? How does that help your learning?
Response from Informant 1
Some times I listen to pre-recorded audio lectures on specific topics but often this is an audio recording around a Powerpoint presentation. These type of recorded lectures can be found on UTube or other institutions websites around specific topics. There are often less audio recordings available than video recordings.
I listen to audio recordings to learn more about a topic but I do not use it very often. 
If the audio recording is focused around a specific topic it can be helpful to highlight the main points about the topic. This can also assist in understanding literature when dealing with a completely new topic. 
Q4. Do you use digital text and information in your studies? How do you concretely use digital texts in your studies, can you describe the procedure? What kind of digital texts do you use? Why do you use digital texts when you attempt to learn something?
How does that help your learning?
Response from Informant 1
Yes, I like to use digital text and digital information such as papers in my studies.
If the speech synthesis mode is available, I like to use this feature when using digital text. This is easier than reading long texts. 
I use scientific papers and ebooks when available.
It is easier to take notes from digital texts rather than hard copy as it is possible to focus in on specific areas quicker using word searches. This makes the learning process more focused.
