Interviewer: Thank you for taking the time this afternoon. As you are aware of, this interview information will just be going to a research study which is conducted by Stockholm University and I hope I have your consent in recording this interview as well. 
Respondent: Yes, I totally agree.
Interviewer: Ok, if we go to the first question, which is: Which education program do you study and what year are you in?
Respondent: Yes, I’m studying on the IT Project Management masters course at DSV, Stockholm University and I’m on the second year of the program running on a half pace.
Interviewer: Then, moving on to the next section, which is about the Construction of digital material for learning. 

Construction of digital material for learning

1. 
Interviewer: So here the first question is, do you do drawings or mind maps using digital tools? And how do you concretely do it? Can you describe the procedure?

Respondent: Actually, sometimes I do drawings with the aid of digital tools. I think that there’s always a need of or idea behind or purpose for a particular drawing. So sometimes, I start drawing directly on the computer, while other times I mostly sketch on a paper before using the computer. So yes, I actually do drawings. Not very often, but I do.
Interviewer: Does that help you with learning? And in that case, how does it help you?
Respondent: I think that the creation of digital drawings are assisting a lot because there is a plethora of different tools that could satisfy let’s say almost any need. So it’s far more easy to depict a complicated and specialized drawings with digital tools than with paper and pen. Moreover I can save them on the computer, edit them as many times as I want. I can print them in many different formats and of course I save them instantly anywhere.
Interviewer: Is this also why you do drawings with digital tools?
Respondent: Yes, these were the main reasons that I will do drawings with digital tools and that because…mostly because I can share them instantly as I said. I can reuse them as many times as I want and with many different tools. This is unfortunately not an option when you use paper and pen.
Interviewer: Very true and which digital tools do you use?
Respondent: I’m using Microsoft Visio so far. So I think that the process of digitally drawing, it contributes significantly to the whole learning process, because it gives me the opportunity to easily create artefacts so that I can study and elaborate more.
2. 
Interviewer: Do you take notes using digital tools during seminars or lectures?
Respondent: Yes, I generally take notes with digital tools. I write down the main points or the summary of the lecture or seminar and then I store them in an appropriate format in order to be able to edit them later.
Interviewer: Is this the only reason why you take notes that way?
Respondent: I think that taking notes with digital tools are like drawings, much easier to edit, annotated. It is also enriched with different kinds of media. Then of course digital notes also can be easily shared with others and digital files can be stored in a single device so that makes nowadays the use of digital tools for taking notes very essential.
Interviewer: How does that help your learning? And which digital tools do you use?
Respondent: Uhum, that’s interesting. I think that taking notes in that way helps me summarise the main points of a lecture and this assists me on better understanding of the lectures or seminars. Also by editing and annotating the notes, I am actually doing something like a mini-reflection on the subject. This is also a positive contribution in the learning process.
3. 
Interviewer: Do you write text using digital tools in your studies? Perhaps to summarize
Literature / lecture material, or for other purposes? How do you concretely do it, can you describe the procedure?

Respondent: Yes, besides taking notes, I using digital texts in order to write my assignments or to form utility reports or write academic papers. I usually write down on the software such as Microsoft Office suite, particularly MS Word. I do syntax error checking and save the text in a proper format in order to also edit its letter. 
Interviewer: Why do you write texts that way and how does it help your learning? Which digital tools do you use?
Respondent: By writing down on a, digitally, usually I summarize or highlight the important issues or subjects in my courses. This helps me better understand and learn depth that describe theories and also, it gives me the opportunity to have available this notes or text anytime and also anywhere. And the tools, as I have already said, are the tools usually from Microsoft Office suite, that is, MS Word.
4. 
Interviewer: Ok, nothing else? Do you audio record yourself or others for learning purposes? 
Respondent: No, I do not audio record myself or others. No, I do not do that.
[Not asked: How do you concretely do it, can you describe the procedure? How do audio recordings help your learning? Which digital tools do you use?]

5. 
Interviewer: Do you video record yourself or others for learning purposes?
Respondent: No, I do not video record myself or others for learning or other purposes. I do not. At least until now!
[Not asked: How do you concretely do it, can you describe the procedure? How do video recordings help your learning? Which digital tools do you use?

6. 
Interviewer: Do you take pictures for learning purposes?
Respondent: No, I would not say that I’m taking pictures of notes or lecture slides because usually they are already in digital format, so there is no need to take pictures. I try to find this in digital format.
Interviewer: Right, so instead you would ask for a copy of the slides of the presentation! And you haven’t come across any situations where you couldn’t get a copy of the presentation? 
Respondent: Yes, in that case I will probably take a picture. Yes, that’s true.
Interviewer: Ok, so in that case, what digital tool would you use?
Respondent: I will use my cellphone camera, probably. Yes.
7.
Interviewer: Then just on a general level, what digital learning practices do you do, except of the already mentioned, in order to learn and increase your understanding of course material?

Respondent: Well, I’m reading a lot of digital material: ebooks, papers, articles or journals, all in a digital format. I’m also using a digital data base to find related material for the course. 

Interviewer: What about, do you use digital tools when you prepare for exams (both ordinary and written home exams)?

Respondent: I’m using yes, usually utilize e-Learning platforms such as Moodle which is the one that Stockholm University, I think, uses. I also use for academic purposes tools such as Google Scholar in order to find related papers. 

Interviewer: And how do you find that that helps you learning?

Respondent: Oh, yeah. How? I think that all these digital media are giving a more enriched approach or point of view in a subject, so I have a more complete picture of a subject I think by utilizing video or audio channels or reading lots of papers before I draw a conclusion for example. This makes my decision making more concrete or I could write a research paper which is well grounded theory for example.

Interviewer: And I think you have already covered, essentially just to summarize, so you mentioned digital tools that you use as Google Scholar and just normal research. Is there anything else that I missed?

Respondent: YouTube channels; Acrobat Reader for reading papers, journals and eBooks; the online Learning platforms such as Moodle. What else? Yes, I think that is all.

8.  
Interviewer: Describe how you go about when you have to learn before an exam with a particular focus on the use of digital tools/technology?

Respondent: I could say that as a person with a very strong IT background, I use digital tools and technology in every aspect of my life. So considering this, I would say that the use of digital tools are an essential part of my preparation before an exam. I have no trouble using them for that purpose. I could also say that the digital tools help me a lot to success with upcoming exams for example.
Interviewer: Ok, then we will go over to the next section, which is…
Use of pre-existing digital material for learning
1. Interviewer: Here we got the question, “Do you use existing video recordings when you attempt to learning something?
Respondent: Yes, I use a lot of pre-existing video recordings for learning purposes of course.
Interviewer: How do you concretely use them? Can you describe the procedure? What kind of videos do you use?
Respondent: Usually, I watch the whole video once and then do some selected viewing on the parts that I consider to be more important or the parts I would like to focus more on or elaborate on. So that’s the way I use the pre-existing video recordings. I mainly make use of recorded lectures and YouTube videos.
Interviewer: Why do you look at videos in your studies and how does it help your learning?

Respondent: Yes, this comes in line with the previous question. I think that videos make me understand better the learning subject, because they give an enriched presentation of the subject where both visual and aural channels are utilized and in that way they kind of substitute a lack of a traditional lecture with physical presence. 

Interviewer: Anything else that you’ve noticed with videos as a support for your studies?

Respondent: The fact that they are a very rich media format, it’s the advantage of using video recordings.

2. 

Interviewer: Do you use pre-existing images when you attempt to learn something (for instance
Google pictures)?

Respondent: Ok, yes, I also use pre-existing digital images, specifically I try to find digital representations of learning subjects such as for example a plan or an algorithm, a schedule or even of concepts, or models or frameworks. Usually I try to find them on my own on the internet. Yes, I do search on Google pictures and also from relevant sources such as academic papers, journals or books. Or, other digital libraries of course.

Interviewer: How do you concretely use images in your learning, can you describe the procedure?

Respondent: Yes, after I found the pictures or pictures that I would like to utilize, I think that the digital pictures are helping me on giving a visual representation of a subject that I’m studying and usually I have already read its description, so in that way the learning process becomes more effective, particularly when it comes to learning issues. 

Interviewer: I think we have covered everything else in this question.

Respondent: Oh, that’s good.

3. 
Interviewer: Do you use pre-existing audio recordings in your studies? How do you concretely use audios in your studies, can you describe the procedure?

Respondent: Well, I cannot say that I’m using a lot pre-existing audio recordings. I don’t remember me using very often pre-existing audio recordings. I think I have just used some podcasts during my studies. This is because I consider video recordings to be much more productive and assistive than audio recordings when it comes to learning issues.

Interviewer: Ok, so we will go to the next question.

4.

Interviewer: Do you use digital text and information in your studies? How do you concretely use
digital texts in your studies, can you describe the procedure?

Respondent: Yes, and the procedure. So well I use a lot of digital material. As I have already said that there are eBooks, digital notes, papers, journals, reports and also digital databases in order to find the related material for a course. Considering the process and depending on the course, I’m using the most appropriate digital sources from those that are available at a given time of course. This is in order to have a broader view on the learning subject in order to study different learning approaches to the subject and acquire deeper knowledge on the subject.

Interviewer: Why do you use digital texts when you attempt to learn something? I mean if you try to compare with going to say a regular library?

Respondent: I think that due to their nature, digital texts are actually providing a vast amount of written knowledge that can be used in almost any case and every situation, for example I can easily store on my mobile device a lot of digital texts and I can make use of them every time anywhere and also I can use additional digital tools for digital reading. So I think that this is one of the major advantages of digital texts comparing to traditional way of learning.

Interviewer: And for you, would that also answer how it helps your learning?

Respondent: I think, yes, also digital texts are sort of a method to compare very easily different views and approaches about the subject. This also, I think, makes a person to have a more deeper knowledge about the subject. You actually, there is no limitation on the text that’s available in order to study subjects. So, for example you don’t need to carry a lot of books on your back, you can just sit back in your office and have information flowing form almost any part of the world. This is very important in order of someone to have a critical view on the subject.

Interviewer: That’s very true. Ok, thank you for your time. We will finish the interview here.
